Update how-to-create-release-announcements.md (#30)
mattermost/mattermost-handbook: operations/messaging-and-math/how-to-guides-for-m-and-m/how-to-create-release-announcements.md

## **Process**

### A. (T-minus 20 working days) Blog Post Outline
* Release Manager prepares bullet points and release headline for release announcement
* Release Manager reviews the outline (benefits and order of features) with PMs before sending to Justin to work on
  - Ask PMs to share specs or other details on why the features we are shipping were built, so that it is easier for marketing to identify which 1-2 features are highlighted in the title
* Release Manager and PMs decide which sections of the release announcement will have an accompanying screenshot/photo

### B. (T-minus 8 working days) First Draft
* Author finishes blog post draft
* Release manager checks that the guidelines in the Checklist for Review of Draft are met
  - Ask: how would you rate the title? How can we make it 1 score better? Use this method for other parts of the blog draft, inlcuding screenshots

### C. (T-minus 7 working days) PM and Marketing Review

> * PMs review for features and content are technically correct

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* PMs review feature content is technically correct
```

* Marketing reviews the blog draft

### D. (T-minus 6 working days) Head of PM Review
* Head of PM reviews the blog draft

### E. (T-minus 5 working days) CEO Review
* 24 hours prior to CEO review, Release Manager posts the blog draft in the Marketing channel with a hashtag (e.g. ``#mm520``) to make finding the blog draft easier (and at-mentions meeting attendees)

> ### F. (T-minus 1 working days) Set Up Blog Post in Wordpress

Reviewer: Should this happen at T-2, so it's consistent with release process?

* Author sets up the blog post in Wordpress and asks Release Manager and Marketing to review

### G. (T-minus 0 working days) Blog Post Published
* Release Manager publishes the blog post

> ### H. (T-plus 5 working days) Tweets

Reviewer: Why scheduled only a week after? Can they be scheduled at T-0?

* Author schedules tweets from blog post \(Tuesdays 10am PT, and Thursdays 10am if there's extra\)

## **Checklist for review of draft:**

The Release Manager \(Amy Blais\) owns the release announcement, including the following checklist items unless otherwise indicated:

1. **Exciting title**
   1. Do not lead with a competitor parity feature 
   2. Communicate primary benefit
   3. Lead with the most exciting/impactful new feature
   4. Highlight at most 2 features
2. **Compelling, specific one-liners below hero image**
   1. Introduce features with compelling, concise, specific descriptions
   2. If the feature is a filler for a release, be vague and add it at the end of the blog post, e.g. "Performance improvements to mobile" **\(please avoid when possible\)**
   3. Beta features should be at the bottom of the list
   4. Lead with verbs (e.g. "Find most recent messages faster")
   5. Start with benefits, then technical details
3. **Body**

>    1. Promote E10 and E20 features - add `E10` and `E20` labels throughout the blog post for relevant features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Promote E10 and E20 features by adding `E10` and `E20` labels throughout the blog post for relevant features
```

   2. No spelling errors or broken links

>    3. The type of the release (feature or quality) should be clarified in a paragraph after the one-liners

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   3. Clarify type of release (feature or quality) in the paragraph that follows feature one-liners
```

## Language Guidelines
1. Specify Desktop app or Mobile App if a feature is not dependent on the server release
2. Use common wording, e.g. say "Servers" instead of "Sites"; say `plugins` not `plug-ins`; say "Browser" instead of "Webapp"
3. Avoid phrases that are too vague, such as "Better messaging experience"
4. Do not use internal names of features, such as "Unread toasts", "Deep linking"

## One great screenshot a month

1. Each monthly release R&D should aspire to come up with a "Hero" screenshot following guidelines to use as the splash image for the release.
2. Communicate primary benefit in the title
3. Keep the title short, use sentence case, and ensure there are no orphans or widows
4. If a screenshot isn't available to highlight in the release use a conceptual banner based on [R&D Twitter Banner Template](https://community.mattermost.com/files/6bc4cot5xbyi8cfxesgyx6aqdw/public?h=HKLm3FZvOvpylxVk7mUYmeaBQ_rFV_JCEAZ2w5z9fg4) \(shown below\)

[Example of tweet using banner template](https://twitter.com/iantien/status/1217457762772238336)

> ![Screenshot for templates for announcements and Twitter banners, including guides](../../../.gitbook/assets/image%20%2862%29.png)

Reviewer: Is this screenshot broken? No image renders in preview mode

Author: It looks fine on the handbook.

I haven't made changes to it and I'm not sure where the image comes from.

>   * Marketing reviews

Reviewer: I heard from AmyN that Ian is hoping we change this to match our T-XX process dates. If she hasn't reached out to you, can you help ask for more details?

E.g.  
 - T-XX: Writer drafts announce with feedback
 - T-XX: Release manager checks for spelling mistakes, ... 
 - ...

* Head of PM reviews 
* CEO review

>    - Use hashtags in marketing channel (e.g. #v5.20-blog) to make finding the blog draft easier, and post the blog draft in the marketing channel 24 hours prior to the meeting (and at-mention meeting attendees)

Reviewer: Who uses hashtags? The CEO?

Should we use the same hashtag we'll use for tweets, e.g. `#mm520`

1. **Exciting title**
   1. Do not lead with a competitor parity feature 
   2. Communicate primary benefit
   3. Lead with the most exciting/impactful new feature

>    4. Include 1-2 features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   4. Highlight at most 2 features

>      - Have clarity on why those 1-2 features were chosen for the title. Ask PMs to share specs or other details on why the features we are shipping were built

Reviewer: 1 - Should this be included as part of the blog post process above? Perhaps as a separate bullet before `Writer drafts announce with feedback` when you're working with PMs on the outline?
2 - Don't we already do this, at least partially, by writing down the benefits?
3 - Formatting seems to break for this bullet

>    5. Ask: how would you rate the title? How can we make it 1 score better? 

Reviewer: I would not add this here - I would use this as a tool for yourself.

Or alternatively it could be part of the process above (it's not a checklist item per say)

     - Use this method for other parts of the blog draft, inlcuding screenshots

> 2. **Compelling, specific one-liners**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Compelling, specific one-liners below hero image**
```

   1. Introduce features with compelling, concise, specific descriptions
   2. If the feature is a filler for a release, be vague and add it at the end of the blog post, e.g. "Performance improvements to mobile" **\(please avoid when possible\)**

>    3. Beta features can be at the bottom of the list

Reviewer: "can be" or "should be"

   4. Lead with verbs (e.g. "Find most recent messages faster")
   5. Start with benefits, then technical details

> 3. **Complete**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Body**
```

>    1. Make sure to market paid features - add E10 and E20 throughout the blog post for relevant features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Promote E10 and E20 features - add `E10` and `E20` labels throughout the blog post for relevant features
```

## **Style Guidelines**

> 2. Highlight past successes: Cross link to promote traffic 

Reviewer: I think you intended these bullets to be 1 and 2

3. Links tell a story: Links should indicate the content they lead to without clicking, avoid "read this blog post" and instead "learn more about the incident response alpha program"

## Screenshot Guidelines

[Learn how to create screenshots and GIFs](https://handbook.mattermost.com/operations/messaging-and-math/how-to-guides-for-m-and-m/how-to-create-screenshots-and-gifs)

> ## Language Guidelines**

Reviewer: Extra "**" at the end

1. Specify Desktop app or Mobile App if a feature is not dependent on the server release
2. Use common wording, e.g. say "Servers" instead of "Sites", or say "Browser" instead of "Webapp"

> 3. "Better messaging experience" is too vague

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Avoid phrases like "Better messaging experience" that are too vague
```

4. Do not use internal names of features, such as "Unread toasts", "Deep linking"

## One great screenshot a month

1. Each monthly release R&D should aspire to come up with a "Hero" screenshot following guidelines to use as the splash image for the release.
2. Communicate primary benefit in the title

>    * Use `plugins` not `plug-ins`

Reviewer: Maybe move this to language guidelines?

> 3. Keep the title short and make sure there are no orphans

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Keep the title short, use sentence case, and ensure there are no orphans or widows
```
